----
NOTE: This file is not mandatory for COMP3506 students, but we do encourage
you to have a go at these questions anyway. COMP7505 students, this component
is worth 2 marks, so your total A1 is worth 17 marks.
----

Question 1: Briefly describe, in two or three sentences, how your data
structure works, including any variables or data maintained internally.
This should take about four sentences.

Answer:

    Basically the datastructure internally uses, 2 dynamic arrays to store kmers and number of occurrences of each kmer
    and a list to store count of similar compatible kmers(same first 2 characters). Thus, kmers and their number
    of occurrences and count of similar kmers that will be compatible with their complement are managed efficiently.
    Thus, inserting and deleting kmers as a batch, kmers having greater than or equal to specific frequency, number
    of times a specific kmer occurs and number of kmers that are lexicographically greater than specific kmer
    and number of compatible kmers to specific kmer can be obtained efficiently.

Question 2: What is the worst-case time complexity for supporting the
`countgeq` query, and does this differ to the worst-case time complexity
for the `count` query? If so, how? Explain.
This should take about five sentences.

Answer:

    countgeq() method uses O(1) to find the index of the prefix_array that has similar kmers having first
    2 characters equal and O(16) worst time complexity to traverse the array and find the sum of the count.
    And then uses binary search O(log n) to find the kmer in kmers_list and there it uses another traversal
    backwards to subtract the same first 2 characters but lexicographically smaller kmers counts and this has
    O(n) worstcase time complexity. So the worst case time complexity is O(1) + O(16) + O(log n) + O(n) = O(n).
    Whereas the count() method just uses the binary search with time complexity O(log n) to find the element.

Question 3: What is the worst-case time complexity for supporting the
`compatible` query type? Explain how the query is solved along with your
analysis.
This should take about five sentences. Your analysis can be in plain English.

Answer:
    compatible() method's worst case time complexity is O(1) as it just uses left shift operator to append 2 bits
    and another left shift operator to find the complement of the bits in the process of finding count of compatible
    kmers. Basically A,C,G,T are converted to 00, 01, 10, 11 bits and appended to get a single integer which is
    used as the index to store the count of the similar kmers having same first 2 characters. As mentioned in the
    description A is the complement of T and C is the complement of G. Using this we just find the complement of
    the last two characters of the kmer provided to find the index of the prefix_array where the count of the
    compatible kmers are present.
